---
layout: post
title: Papers at SIEDS 2023 and ICAT Day Panelist
date: 2023-05-04
description: Student research presented at SIEDS and invited panelist at Virginia Tech ICAT
tags: [JMU, undergraduate-research, wearable-computing]
categories: [research]
---

## Student Research at SIEDS 2023

The work of several JMU honors students and capstone projects was presented last week at the [2023 IEEE Systems and Information Engineering Design Symposium (SIEDS)](https://engineering.virginia.edu/ieee-sieds) hosted by the University of Virginia. Sanda Thura (JMU Computer Science '23) presented his honors thesis on applications of machine learning for cardiac disease detection on embedded systems. His paper can be viewed [here](/assets/pdf/thursa-sieds-2023.pdf). Sanda was advised by myself, Dr. Kevin Molloy (JMU CS), and Dr. Jacob Couch (Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab).

JMU Engineering capstone students (Ritavash Chowdhury, Michael Chung, and Dylan Gnagey) presented their senior project on automated systems to detect correct posture during a bench press exercises. Their paper is available [here](/assets/pdf/chowdhury-sieds-2023.pdf).

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sanda-sieds.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/gym-sense-sieds.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

It was my personal pleasure to be the General Chair for SIEDS 2023. I look forward to continuing into 2024 and extending JMU's engagement with the conference.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sieds-jmu.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

## ICAT Day Panelist

It was a pleasure to return home to the [Virginia Tech Institute for Creativity Arts and Technology (ICAT)](https://icat.vt.edu/) to speak with current graduate students, explore new projects, and catch up with old friends. It is amazing to think that nearly 8 years have elapsed since my time there, so much of which is fundamental to my growth and identity as a faculty member. I am very appreciative of the opportunities ICAT has provided me.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/icat-panel.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/icat-speaker.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
